so Jerusalem the Holy Land
a will Palestinians and Israelis are
sharing the same city I think it's the
only city in the world where you have
all the religions in one city here we
are in differential differential it's on
the eastern mountains of Jerusalem where
from the other side we can see now the
Jordan Valley and we can see a man and
Jordan then we have here Mount Scopus
Mount of Olives and on the right half we
have here the amazing city Jerusalem
you can see the two parts the old city
and the new city
there is huge differences between the
tech sector in Palestine and in Israel
we as a Palestinian living in East
Jerusalem I can't be as a part of the
startup nation I want to be but I'm not
of that nation so my idea was if we can
be a startup region by giving others the
Arabs Palestinians the Jordanians and
everyone from the Middle East and yes we
can do it here
take the Holy Land again on the
technology level and how we are going to
change them all
[Music]
the best startup which was created in
this part of the world is the State of
Israel which was a fantasy which made no
financial or no economic sense
whatsoever
in many ways innovation for us has
always been a necessity we had to be
global before the war global existed
just like you have mining cities
fabrication cities we're a startup
nation that's what we are gaza is
amongst the most innovative that i've
seen you know when the fuel shortages
start they start running their their
cars on cooking oil I think because of
the repeated shocks of the conflict
they're innovating to survive for tech
startups there's many many challenges
the majority of them I can say are due
to the occupation we don't have to wait
for the end of the occupation to start
improving the economy we could start
there there the occupation is gonna end
if this conflict someday is resolved the
potential of what this region can build
together is nothing short of massive
I truly believe we live in a unique time
in history from a technological
perspective because of the convergence
of exponential computation growth and
decline in prices and because of the
fact that the capital required to get in
the game is very low we no longer have
paradigms we live in an era of a
permanent revolution cost of certain
types of sensors has gone down so much
and their capacity is exponentially
grown because of phone makers having the
pressure to make amazing cameras that
are so tiny so that we can take selfies
and send them to our friends this
pressure creates situation that this
sensor that was created for the camera
of the iPhone now can play a role in the
ecosystem now a guy in Israel can look
at that sensor say hey 4k capability in
a seven dollar chip I can revolutionize
agriculture because if I can look at the
variance of color of an apple in
different stages instead of losing 30%
of the produce I will lose 10% of the
produce another person in India looks at
exactly the same thing and said hey $7
chip I can generate an innovation in
automotive two years ago Kickstarter
provided liquidity of half a billion
dollars in one year without taking
equity from anyone the biggest venture
capital funds in the world don't do that
you have this era of permanent
revolution on the technological sense it
meets massive reduction in price and
then everyone can afford it at least at
the entry level this is a tremendous
period and that's where you see
immunotherapy and you're seeing so many
interrelated or converging fields I
think Israel is very very
well-positioned to leverage the
opportunities of the Arab Herman
it's not gonna get slower from here on
it
Israel is second only to Silicon Valley
in terms of startups and VC investment I
think there are several main factors
that lead to Israel today being known as
the startup nation as this nation of
entrepreneurs my name is Saul singer I'm
the co-author of startup nation to the
book about what made Israel innovative
Shimon Peres of course is the person we
quote most in the book entirely but
perhaps my favorite quote is defining
Israelis or Jews in one word in that
word is dissatisfied he used to call
Israel for attempted under
dissatisfaction nation and when you look
at the history of the country it makes a
lot of sense was were the builders of
the country there were people who were
dissatisfied from where they were they
had to flee and they came here and that
they had to make this place work because
this was their final station this was
our final stop this were the refuge the
people here the very small community
which was in decided they want to create
a country which they had in their mind
will need buildings and pipelines and
electric lines and railroads and roads
but not only that they understood the
importance also of sociology and
philosophy etc so they created not only
the Technion in the Hebrew University
they created the Philharmonic
Orchestra's so they went and decided
just to go and do it you know to go and
build a state and actually the best
start up which was created in this part
of the world is the State of Israel
which started as a crazy fantasy and
this was by creating by many many
startups not in the high tech not in the
internet but in agriculture in job
creation in developing cities
the founding of the state in 1948 by
David ben-gurion Israel's first Prime
Minister the first thing he was worried
about is the survival of the country so
that required a military that was going
to defend against five other countries
around it with much bigger militaries a
bunch better equipped so the only way to
do that was with superior motivation and
better technology throughout history the
military and unfortunately warfare has
been such a driver of civilian
technology so for example you know
computer vision to find intruders who
are trying to get through to your
borders eventually trickles through to
the civilian space and that leads to for
example autonomous vehicle technology
companies like Mobil I and OTO which is
a driverless truck company which was
recently acquired by uber drones
computer intelligence artificial
intelligence a lot of what is driving
the tech industry starts in the military
one thing that's interesting about
Israel's innovation story is a lot of
factors converging together the fact
that the whole country is a start-up the
military aspect effect over a country of
immigrants all these things feeding
together are important when we wrote
startup nation first of all we didn't
realize we were branding a country but
we also didn't realize that we were
touching sort of a global nerve we're
living in a world that's changing all
the time and not only changing but the
pace of change is increasing and this is
kind of quietly causing a panic I think
in companies and individuals in
countries where they say we have to
become innovate that's the only way we
can keep up and they're right
but the tendency is to think okay we
want to do that we want to be like
Israel we want to do it like Israel did
but Israel kind of has a unique story we
have our story but what's happening
actually what's exciting is that around
the world everybody is doing this but
they have their own story and gorian
once said in israel in order to be a
realist you must believe in miracles
sometimes the greatest miracle is
recognizing that the world can change
[Music]
through talent and hard work Israelis
have put this small country at the
forefront of the global economy already
we see how that innovation could reshape
this region over 100 high-tech companies
have found home on the West Bank
which speaks to the talent and
entrepreneurial spirit of the
Palestinian people now one of the great
ironies of what's happening in the
broader region is that so much of what
people are yearning for education
entrepreneurship the ability to connect
to the global economy those are things
that can be found here in Israel this
should be a hub for thriving regional
trade and an engine for opportunity
[Music]
for most people who are in the
technology space if you talk about
startups Palestine is not at the top of
the list it's probably not on the list
at all right we were starting to think
about something that for all intents and
purposes was impossible to do start a
venture capital fund in a place where
something like this has never even been
heard of you layer on top of that sort
of the political and geopolitical
complexities of the place and we really
have the official definition of mission
impossible over the last five plus years
there has been explosive growth in what
will become the arab digital economy we
raised thirty million dollars to create
these business opportunities
despite occupation at the end of the day
we as Palestinians need to stop thinking
of ourselves as victims and we need to
think of ourselves as people who despite
of our situation can actually offer
something to the world you've got this
opportunity in the Middle East mobile
devices are being used at some of the
highest grades in terms of penetration
across globally even compared to
developed markets in e-commerce in media
gaming business-to-business
so the startups that we are actually
investing in are looking at these
markets welcome
this is suit tell we have staff in
Jordan in Berlin in Washington DC and we
have staff in Canada but the developers
sits here so the tag is actually
Palestinian tech and they said over
there in 2006 there were jobs out there
and there was at the same time a 40%
unemployment rate among Hugh's the first
solution that we developed was a
platform matching jobseekers to job
providers now suit tel has developed
such that we design and deliver digital
solutions from Afghanistan to Zimbabwe
spanning some 30 countries so for
example using a basic mobile phone
Syrian refugees living in Turkey context
and questions to lawyers to get legal
advice
we have also last month a six of us were
actually in Egypt for ten days working
with farmers now we're building a
platform that would help deliver
messages to these farmers to try to
enhance their productivity and yield of
course Palestinians have faced a variety
of challenges and a great adversity so
it makes perfect sense to me
that we're using Palestinian technology
to answer these same questions for
people globally I've spent about 19
years abroad and among my my circle of
friends a lot of people would be talking
about coming back but there's always the
question or you know what would I come
back and do right now that has
completely changed our portfolio is
employing 200 people about 33% of that
are female employees that are primarily
in technical positions and you know
we're reading those percentages in
Silicon Valley so Palestine has been
able to to beat Silicon Valley on one
end at least
[Music]
the great thing about innovation is that
it transcends borders it transcends
cultures transcends religion you can
basically be sitting across the table
from somebody who never met who comes
completely from a different background
then almost instantly speak a common
language not to say that if a
Palestinian sits across the table from
an Israeli that means oh you know now we
have peace and everything is fine and
dandy and we can you know hold hands and
sing Kumbaya it's not about that
the funny thing is that if you were
talking to somebody from Europe or from
the states and they would come here and
are positively surprised but what's
happening here because they never see
some looks something like this in the
news you can understand this but when
it's somebody that's less than an hour
drive from you you start understanding
that the political situation is standing
in the way we are at the heart of
Rothschild Avenue also known as the tech
mile of Israel about a hundred years ago
would have been standing on a sand dune
because there was nothing here you could
have seen Chavez gates from here two
buildings to the right is Israel's
independence hall where about seven
years ago the founder of the country
David ben-gurion decided to declare the
State of Israel within a hundred years
we've been able to get to a point that
in the skyscrapers we have the world's
top R&D companies Facebook and Google
and Autodesk and other companies in
buildings at the heart of Tel Aviv a lot
of the Israeli talents find this way to
center around here this is where the top
of the startup industry is it speaks
highly that the energy of the city is
here the creative guys which are doing
all the startups don't want to live
outside of the city they want to live in
downtown they want to have urban life
they want to have coffee shops they
looking for cities which are liberal
which are embracing people with all
kinds of tastes you know television you
can remain you can be female you can be
gay you can be lesbian you can be
transgender
nobody give a shit
[Music]
Tel Aviv is providing this kind of
atmosphere it's an open city liberal
city embracing city celebrate the
diversity add to it you know the blue
sky a great restaurants the beaches the
beautiful people and this is why we
every such a concentration of creative
people you see more and more young
people becoming involved in high-tech
aspiring to develop their own startups
doing really fantastic jobs alright so
first of all welcome to healthy i/o we
are based at the heart of Tel Aviv on
Rothschild Avenue and this is where we
turn smartphone cameras into clinical
grade medical scanners every day
millions of people across the globe get
their urine tested pregnant women
diabetics people with high blood
pressure urine testing is the world's
second most frequently conducted
diagnostic test but now there's a new
way we use image recognition and
artificial intelligence to transform
smartphone cameras into clinical grade
scanners
the way to transform an embedded
smartphone camera into a clinical-grade
scanner goes obviously for two big
buzzwords big data and neural networks
we built a very sophisticated way of
generating well tag data we design we
bring in phones we put them in a system
we then get the data that it is very
well tagged we see we allow for the
neural network to improve different
layers of the algorithm I think we we
possess now a set of big data which is
unparalleled worldwide this is us in
different generations and we have a lot
of jokes about you know where
smartphones were about 10-15 years ago
and we're super happy to have the huge
bulky device in our hands that we can
call or wherever you know if you think
about the fact that an iPhone is only 10
years old you know it Goethals you it's
a pretty exciting revolution to be to be
part of we no longer live in an era
where there are subsequent paradigm
shifts because healthcare for me working
for the President on you know Israel's
neuroscience by informatics was always
like this big field where you know big
penicillin moments are gonna happen in
the 21st century right before and after
immunotherapy is gonna kill cancer stem
cell research is gonna create organs for
transplant big things they might happen
but I was really shocked that the
dynamics we see in this era of permanent
revolution also operate in healthcare as
the healthcare system goes into being
heavily weighed up against because of
obesity because of the abilities because
of a kidney disease it is recalibrating
its path towards urine that's a standard
urine test that's done today in the lab
we wake up in the mornings and in line
they give the prescription we get an old
cup we go and pee in a cup and then at
the end of the day they dip a stick
which is thirty thirty five-year-old
technology changes colors accordingly
ten different parameters measured in our
urine very important ones tips and put
it in this big scanner and does the scan
and we get very accurate reads 150
million people in the US are doing this
test every year why on earth are we
still consuming it in to say
in efficient way instead of waking up in
the morning and going to the lab the Box
gets to your home and in the Box you
have the same dipstick we don't know the
lighting condition we don't know the
phone the camera but the interaction
between the phone camera and the kids
and ultimately the cloud obviously
delivers clinical-grade accuracy
scanning it with a phone within the app
and you're good to go
this company is not about urine testing
it's about generic color reconstruction
in the service of healthcare right the
idea of transforming embedded smartphone
cameras into clinical grade scanners it
will be relevant for skin care it will
be relevant for eyes to urine and others
so the vision behind what we do is to
have people who consume it on a mass
scale enjoy highly simplified version of
exactly the same tests when you think
about what an entrepreneur is it's
basically someone who sees the world
with slightly different eyes most of us
often we don't even see the big problems
around us because we take them for
granted if you have to ask what is the
main trait of the startup ecosystem it's
a different attitude towards failure
than exists elsewhere failure is the
only way to success
if you can't fail you can't succeed
nobody likes to fail I cannot tell you
it's very pleasant you know from my
experience I will tell you a secret
don't share it with everybody it's much
nicer to win than to lose but if you
don't fail you limit your downside but
you also limit your upside you know
these things are coming together
otherwise everybody would be in the
industry where the upside is high and
the downside is low doesn't exist
you know I was part of the Israeli
negotiation team to Camp David so is
this a big enough fuckup to share with
you how do I talk about failure how do
we do it in a way that it's fun 97% of
startups fail we keep talking about the
3% that actually did it then made it and
made the exit somebody bought them they
made a big sell they're now in stock
exchange but we're not talking about the
97% that fail basically thing we bring
foreign true preneur is once a month to
talk about the biggest failure and it's
kind of incredible we said like it's
gonna be extremely ironic if we fail
because then we can say that we failed
at fuck of night but somehow is just
really successful there's this Yiddish
word called chutzpah which I think also
exemplifies a lot of the Israeli spirit
if you meet Israelis they are very
honest some people would say brutally
honest it can come off as a little bit
brash but a lot of Israelis have it it's
this attitude that I can be my own boss
and do their own startup
[Music]
I'd like to believe modern Israeli
culture is certainly influenced by
Jewish culture we study the Hebrew Bible
here and we also devote time to Talmud
study Talmud is really composed of two
documents one is this code developed in
the third century called the Mishnah and
the discussions that built around that
text and the 200 years after what we
call the Gemara the relevance goes on we
have to constantly reapply and rethink
but there's wisdom there that seems to
transcend time
the Talmud itself is a 600 year argument
of the rabbis where they argue about
what the law should be based on the
Bible and then how you study that
argument is through argument that seems
to make more complicated the issue of
the six Ybor when you come from a
textual tradition that says well read it
differently read in a new way
what else can we learn we're not going
to assume that the guy who's been here
for 40 years has all the answers
we're not going to assume that my job is
simply to do what I'm told we're not
going to say that as long as we all say
the same thing then we'll be okay but
we're gonna bring those values of
questioning and complexity and
creativity the process of debating and
arguing was partly how do you apply
these ideas to the world as it gets more
modern this seeds of it are in the Bible
itself let's say just for example the
story of Abraham God's about to destroy
Sodom and Gomorrah just wipe them out
kill everybody that Abram starts arguing
with him what you know you're gonna
destroy these cities what if there were
50 righteous people
God says oh no I wouldn't do it if there
were 50 well what about what if there
were 40 and so on they keep I'm not just
arguing which itself arguing with God
that's pretty radical but but over
morality I mean God is the source of
morality here he's our cocoon with God
over morality so Abraham can argue with
God so of course we're gonna argue with
the CEO from Intel or whatever you know
we won't be afraid of that it makes
perfect sense to me that there's this
marriage between innovation and ideology
because I think people need a vision
they're not just doing something for
themselves but they're helping build the
country there's a vision of making
society better of improving life of
doing something meaningful making money
is not enough you know people are trying
to explain what's going on in Israel
referring to the technology or to the
military or to budgets or education all
of it it's true but all of it are the
fuel the question is what is the spark
plug because you have all these
components all over the world you know
you have them in Germany rather than in
Japan it's not enough something you need
something else and something else has to
do with things like culture virtues
aspirations the human component
and I think this is something which is
very special to Israel they wake up in
the morning they have madness in their
eyes so when you look on the startup
nation or when you look on the
explanation you're this is part and
parcel of our DNA and our neighbors from
behind the green line the Palestinians
they also go in these roots and I think
it's very good very important for their
economic development the mixture of
nationalities in Israel and the Diaspora
who came back the talented who came back
from the state and all worldwide to
Israel to build this ecosystem we have
the same opportunity now for the
Palestinian side we are counting on the
Diaspora to come back and to start their
ideas from here and creating an equally
consistent
ramallah has become a de facto capital
right so you have the incubators and the
accelerators and the training programs
right and so that I think also led to a
hub for tech startups and Palestine for
investors today 80% of them are
Palestinians both within and outside
Palestine I think there's certainly a
desire to to show that this can be done
in Palestine Palestine by nature is in
and the culture community we all came
from farming families but what happened
with Ramallah is that when the political
situation changed more work
opportunities occurred within the city
and the young people came to live in the
city where we ended up with an
environment which is less conservative
more open to new opportunities and
people who would like to live in a less
traditional way than other cities within
Palestine Ramallah is mostly a city for
the young people the gems the nightlife
the theater the art everything this
generation they're at a point where they
want to see changes you know history
repeats itself and I think that there
are some things that you need to repeat
themselves and some things that we need
to avoid we know that there's not much
we can do for the political situation or
their economy but we can do something
with our own two hands and create a
product mass riser is basically a
platform that helps real estate
investors in America looking for our
property so that investors can see ok
where are the best cities for real
estate investments and then where are
the best neighborhoods and then where
are the best properties when I make more
money renting out the property
traditionally like with a one-year lease
or as the vacation rental by listing out
an Airbnb a research process that should
take three months now takes about 20
minutes 15 minutes and we also minimize
the time it takes for them to calculate
their own returns people are a little
surprised to know that we serve the US
economy in the US market because we're
completely based in the one law as
you've heard before all you need is you
know good internet and a laptop and
there you go if the car looks to invest
in web and mobile-based businesses also
given again the limitations happening in
Palestine Tech and Internet is a good
way to answer that our companies so far
are really exciting I think our first
investment is a mass riser
but we also have red crew I started
working the normal after I got my degree
in the US and in 2011
Sarah and I started this project in our
market what we look at is how threat
level is rising in a specific location
hour by hour in a very complex political
situation you used to look for the one
contact person that can confirm a
specific piece of information to know
what's happening in Syria for example
today it's millions of people reporting
constantly what we rely on is the
information that people put on their
accounts like Twitter and Facebook the
variation between these people are
extremely marginal that you can actually
take the exact alert from the people
that have entered it on their social
media we created a system that collects
this information simultaneously it goes
through them and ranks them is it a
reliable source or not and it makes it
easier for us to put it on the map and
pinpoint exactly where the incident has
happened for example we have a specific
event happening here so you have the
location within two kilometers it's a
high threat which means it might be very
violent and affect safety and security
the last the circle here is only
security complications so you might be
facing checkpoints and the high security
measures within a specific area and to
be harder for you to move these are the
locations of all the clashes that happen
since the beginning of September in the
West Bank there was for instance 74 in
Gaza - and
Israeli controlled areas is zero and
Jerusalem twenty-nine clashes our target
market consists of non-governmental
organizations in both the developmental
and humanitarian sector who operate for
example in the medical sector and not
being stuck on a specific checkpoint is
very important today they can just open
their mobile and see where incidents
have been happening during the last 10
minutes
[Music]
I'm very proud of what's happening now
in Ramallah and you can see that real
community real ecosystem is very
powerful ecosystem we started to bring
the people back to start creating their
circle and start succeeding from their
homeland
[Music]
working on Palestine is not easy for
anyone really and it's definitely not
for tech startup for a fund like ours
there's many many challenges and those
the majority of them I can say are due
to the occupation and I think we have to
be completely honest and and forthright
about those challenges in terms of you
know people getting in and out Peter who
is a CEO of mass risers you know last
time spent two days just trying to get
back into the country we don't have 3G
still and honestly I don't think it's
gonna happen soon you know so that
technology when we're developing apps is
really hindering us right
if you can't test it easily then you
know it's very hard to develop an app
the legal system is not much oriented
with the venture capital culture and the
startups culture therefore most of the
investors ask startups to register their
companies in the US when you exit all
the tax money that you have paid you
haven't paid an entire country if they
did somewhere else just because the laws
of your country do not apply to your
company which is a pity hopefully
they'll be able to fix it before we exit
[Music]
is there a reason why you've chosen to
do it
[Music]
I know home
oh I wish we had more of an interesting
interesting answers Samia
[Music]
you want various delights minister in
Israel in the world are honoring Shimon
Peres as a visionary and a fighter for
peace the Nobel prize-winning former
president and Prime Minister of Israel
died overnight and in Syria was an in
salalah C of C Mon tell President Obama
gave this tribute a light has gone out
but the hope he gave us will live and
burn forever
in my first meeting with president Paris
when I first went into the office we had
a conversation about the power of
fantasy and he said something that stuck
with me he said remember Yanni people
without fantasies don't do fantastic
things president Peres in a recurring
manner was able to look 10 15 20 years
into the future see the development and
then ask the very tough questions and
then taking very tough actions in making
sure that Israel is well equipped to
reach that goal so in the 50s you know
there were hardly 10,000 cars on the
road he would already imagine the
aeronautic industry of Israel so that
Israel in 1970 would have its own
airplane capability it's only
electro-optic capability things that at
the time really seemed like fantasies so
he did with aeronautics L was industry
number one he did it with nuclear
capability and nuclear research
he realized that having a strong nuclear
research capability something at Israel
cannot afford itself to to leave behind
[Music]
his third understanding I think was when
he is a prime minister in Israel has a
four hundred percent inflation per year
and so president Peres understands that
you know as they say a crisis is a
terrible thing to waste and puts Israel
so repositions reframes Israel on a path
to growth and essentially paves the way
to the tech industry as we know today I
mean what is the tech ecosystem
ultimately it's not that Israel is the
best in the world in universities it's
not that it has the best IP law or the
best access to capital it crosses the
critical mass on all of those dimensions
of the ecosystem and there aren't many
ecosystems like that in terms of culture
in terms of willingness to fail in terms
of access to capital a lot of those were
born in 1985 when again he paid
political capital to put in place very
innovative public policy initiatives
like backing VC venture capital losses
to attract venture capital in the late
80s that's where nanotechnology started
playing a role
Pyron dramatics neuroscience order he
was smart enough and incredible
visionary to understand things that we
didn't even conceive of as younger
people who you know live in the industry
how does exponential growth in
computation allow us to understand the
brain better understand neural networks
then design AI artificial intelligence
that would then learn better about the
brain he saw it he somehow understood it
who is what you'd call the serial
entrepreneur and this country is very
grateful for that so think about it the
country which is seventy years old with
eight million people which seventy years
ago had barely a university here has
three of its six which are publicly
funded three of the Israeli universities
are in the top hundred most innovative
universities in the world I think that's
a that's a fantasy that was that was
realized we are here at the media
Innovation Lab at IDC Herzliya we're
looking very honestly and directly on
the 21st century and we understand the
trains and we understand what's going to
happen and we believe that if we're not
going to do what we do you know it's not
going to be the type of roads that we
want to leave it we have BA we have MA
computer science communication and
psychology students they work in
collaborative groups and they produce
projects throughout the year in an
iterative process where they produce
something that quickly tested and then
produced something more advanced one of
the trends that is already happening
from many many years is a physical
digital interaction so we think about
digital technology we all know what it
is we think about the physical world we
all know what it is but what is the
convergence between them what we do here
is what's called the humanistic
technologies and yes technology is great
and technology is fun and we love
innovation but technology is just
technology it's a means to an end
and we believe that that IOT or this
type of smart objects should become you
know active participants in our lives
they should behave and that's why we
look very much on gestures if we're not
going to make sure that these objects of
the future are going to be more intimate
and more empathic and you know
eunuch ate with us in this very social
way it's just gonna become a very
depressing 21st century this is the
greeting machine we purposely designed
it and the simplest most abstract form
that there is in order to show through
expressive gestures and movements how
just a simple movement can communicate
so much so the idea comes from for
example if we have pets at home who are
waiting for us and they're shaking their
tail so our idea is to have this on
one's table or and the entrance to one's
home and welcoming you making you feel
wanted basically if something is closely
resembles a human but it's not exactly
moving like a human it start to looks
very creepy and you know we have enough
lovely humans around and we think that
we should give this you know abilities
to objects not trying to imitate humans
but makes these objects become you know
more expressive in that way exactly we
have our own mythology that really
emphasizes on going out to the field to
really go into details this is really
important for us so we believe
innovation is in the details we set with
animators and theatre experts actors
choreographers so it's not something
that's scientifically based on some
other discipline but it's inspired from
people that already deal with expressive
motion all of their lives and we asked
people to tell us which emotions they
see in each of the gestures whenever it
looked forward the perception was of a
positive emotion and whenever the robot
was withdrawing there was perception of
a negative emotion very clean and
interesting results this humanistic way
of thinking comes from social science it
comes from many other you know
disciplines it's about philosophy and
how you know people interacted with
technology over the years and what does
it mean to give away agency to the
technology and let the technology make a
decision for me they can't just say you
know no technology is just technology it
has no you know responsibilities in the
world's a user makes their own decision
and that's not true that's very naive to
think this way technology is very
influential and we have to put much more
thinking into the type of technologies
that were creating
one of the aspects of our startup the
culture is kind of a lack of hierarchy
we don't like discipline we don't like
we don't respect authority and that's I
think a very important part of Israeli
ethos that I think just plays out all
the way going through the army the
military was seen to be the opposite of
start up the opposite of innovation very
big very structure very hierarchical
very top-down not innovative and yet the
military has been a huge part of our
story basically the Israeli Defense
Forces look at hierarchy different than
other militaries around the world to
begin with specifically with regards to
um tech I think we had to understand
that we could still tell people where to
go from anytime we cannot tell them how
to get there when simply because nobody
has done it ever or even worse sometimes
you have to tell people to try to
achieve something that somewhere in the
back of your mind you think is almost
impossible in this kind of environment
hierarchy has to change
can you work in a collaborative
environment can you control your ego so
that you can achieve things with the
larger group of individuals and so in
many ways organizations like 8200 are
the closest to meritocracy Dadaab see
and when you create this kind of
environment sometimes magic happens the
army here doesn't look like that I mean
the movies we give them a lot of
responsibility and they know that they
have the freedom to say to me anything
and almost in any way they concern me
that I talk bullshit and they can tell
me that I'm wrong and I accept it and
this what makes this place so great
I never really knew what it meant for me
until I was like 17 years old
like I wasn't truly excluded from social
life I just had a rough time fit again I
felt like I should be able to do this by
am I not able to do this it was really
frustrating for me as someone who is
diagnosed with Asperger's syndrome on
the autism spectrum
I was exempted for my mandatory military
service but despite the exemption I did
still want to serve my country that's
the standard and I wanted to not stick
out or be different than anyone else
having Asperger's syndrome there are
disadvantages and difficulties that are
involved in that there are also other
things other strengths is very high
precision attention to detail the
analytical skills that is very valuable
and important when you're doing this
this kind of work to me it was very much
insane it was a completely different
experience from what I went through
until then because suddenly I felt like
I had a social life it's very refreshing
it's an absolutely great experience
[Music]
the people that really make the
difference in innovation the people that
really make the difference in cyber in
artificial intelligence in Big Data and
so on and so forth are pretty unique
people they're difficult to find these
young people 2122 are being given
tremendous amounts of authority that
there's no way they could get them
civilian life and you come out and
you've had all this management
experience in dealing with real word
dilemmas and decisions so you're ready
to take on the challenges of startups I
had no background in drones whatsoever I
just I went into electronic shop in
Toronto to buy a juicer and I saw this
drone toy this was like I know seven or
eight years ago so I bought it instead
of the juicer ended up to be the best
investment I ever made there is a
definite advantage hiring an engineer
that has a background in the army and
almost everybody in Israel goes on the
army you know the person is responsible
you know they're independent they can
work in a team
those are the things that you look for
in a person and we get those things for
free
[Music]
we saw that there was a big gap that
could be fulfilled and you know
maximizing the potential from these
aircrafts if we took it and made it out
into a tool where this thing actually
does work one of our big projects was a
giant oil spill in Israel very quickly
we were the ones managing the entire
operation because we could fly non-stop
and we just took regular pictures of the
area and send it to everybody's phone
and if surveyors in the field would walk
around with this fresh aerial of what's
going on and they could better manage I
was going on it was a good example of
how Jones are used for good things in
that bad our vision was to create a box
that sits somewhere and you know can
launch and land missions by itself not
just in security or mapping or Emergency
Response but everything combined the
docking station serves several purposes
it protects the drone from the outside
environment whether it's really hot
really cold it's dusty or it's corroded
or it's raining second is replacing the
batteries and also the sensors thus
creating different applications that can
be used in different scenarios if you're
flying on a mission and you're running
security with a video camera and then
you want to switch and go to do mapping
with the drone lands itself in the
docking station and then you have the
sensor replaced and then you have a
different tool
turning it from a toy to a tool there's
a lot of technology involved in most of
the components in the market that they
are not fitted for for an aircraft that
doesn't real work but everybody is an
engineer in Israel I mean we don't
really have anything else to do here if
you're in the desert we don't have a lot
of natural resources so that's our
resource innovation
if you're able to find the people who
are interpret oriole is period then
there really can do this almost anywhere
in the world because if you think about
it interpreter ship is about solving
problems and the bigger the problems are
the more substantial the solution
[Music]
I've been saying this for years and I
believe that because of the
characteristics of Palestinian society
that for me it's obvious that the
economy of the future here should be a
knowledge base technology focused
economy there's a 99% literacy rate high
percentages of people who speak foreign
languages the fact that people are very
tech savvy and and capable and so we've
been steadily working at that you know
since 2007
Mercy Corps is a global relief and
development organization that works in
about 40 countries around the world
helping out in the post crisis response
area and helps to transition things
toward development and we've been here
since the mid-1980s and in Gaza since
about 2006 in both places they have a
lot of challenges but you know the most
obvious ones are political you know in
the West Bank you you tend to have
constant friction and often clashes
inside the West Bank between cities
whereas in Gaza it's a totally closed
economy there is the threat of war every
two years or so we tend to have a
large-scale conflict between the
Israelis and defections inside of Gaza
you know there is that but you can be in
Gaza City and you feel at times like
you're in any other place any other city
in the world
[Music]
young people in Gaza are hungry for
opportunities they're hungry to have
some possibility for creating a better
future for themselves and Gaza is
amongst the most innovative that I've
seen you know when the fuel shortages
start they start running their their
cars on cooking oil right so I mean
they're innovating to survive
I think because of the closure because
of the repeated shocks of conflict
because they've been disconnected from
the world for the last 10 years and
because of a certain structural issues
in the education system they're several
years disconnected from what's happening
at the cutting edge of technology beyond
that as things like you know electricity
shortages are a major challenge in Gaza
internet is surprisingly not one of the
the challenges we sit on top of a
high-speed Internet line and so all of
the people inside of our community you
know able to access Internet
consistently
[Music]
so Gaza sky geeks is an initiative that
we started back in 2011 together with
Google we did lots of events hackathons
startup weekends to really generate buzz
and energy around the idea of creating
opportunities for yourself we saw that
technology would create this this window
to the world around them and create
opportunities for income and for a more
sustainable future for themselves
[Music]
what has been done with Gaza sky geeks
is nothing short of defying that
possible they will challenge the limits
of what enterpreneurship can do in some
of the toughest places in the world I
think they want to prove that they can
succeed and they want to prove that they
have the rights to be part of this
global world so they know now what this
technology gave them the ability to
bypass all the stage and all the
barriers from the Israeli side you know
the vast majority of the people in Gaza
which is a tiny territory most people
have never left it and have no prospects
ever of doing so so you can imagine when
you can visit websites who engage on
social media in something held in the
palm of your hand that's a massive
change at the same time as it's become
more possible for people to talk to each
other virtually it's become actually
more difficult for them to have
day-to-day contact one thing that
Palestinians will accuse other
Palestinians are sometimes is talking
about normalization normalization is
making the relation between the
Palestinian and the Israeli as normal so
as there is no conflict there's nothing
you can do business you can deal with
you can go with you can shop with this
is not accepted there is a contract to
desert we are not dealing with them we
are not doing business with them but if
you are living the same city what are
other opportunities do you have
[Music]
this is the area where you can say east
and west mix this is the imaginary
boundary on the right or the Arab
neighborhoods that's saying and on the
left is the Israeli neighborhoods if you
look at the buildings look at the
streets here you can see a huge
difference we and Israelis pay the same
municipal taxes we do pay the same taxes
on work everything we receive the same
benefits in terms of health but not in
municipal services the situation is
getting better great efforts are being
achieved from the economy to Jerusalem
municipality but it's not enough
it's complicated beyond description
residents of East Jerusalem should
receive the Guinness World Book of
Records of surviving
and now we've arrived at our destination
it's jump the community is Jerusalem
they are placed in Ian's and they are
staying in Jerusalem as residents are
not citizens
we don't have an Israeli passport we are
living with travel document at the same
time we have a kind of Jordanian
passport where the nationality at that
passport is none so you are not a
Palestinian you are not an Israeli and
you are not a Jordanian so this is why
Palestinian community in Jerusalem felt
between the cracks you can't get support
from the Palestinian government because
they can support you and that Israel is
due they can support you because you are
not an Israeli resident like a
Palestinian trying to contact an Israeli
company or Israeli venture capitalists
you get asked a question and it was
asked to me did you serve in the Israeli
army like come on seriously is that a
question you asked a Palestinian so the
answer was no and they said sorry we
can't fund you
we went also to Ramallah right with the
B C's in Ramallah which is the West Bank
in Palestine and we got the same nice
answer every time you're not a
Palestinian resident how can we help you
how can we support you
so among the years there was pressure on
this community in Jerusalem and yes all
the talented all the capable all the
investors all the professionals they are
not here anymore they just left the city
we as a Palestinian living in East
Jerusalem I can't be as a part of the
startup nation I want to be but I'm not
of that nation I'm not part of that
nation so my idea was if we can have the
second edition to be a start-up region
by that the whole nation and all other
part is like Palestinian we can all
start our working together to boost and
to develop the region today for them
just as the home so if you want any kind
of support he will go to his home and
will ask for the service and there is
someone will try to do its best to enter
giving them the capacity-building
opportunity and the training and the
professional trainers to be part of an
ecosystem and giving them the network so
he can't go and join an activity in the
western part of the city and they were
asked from where you are I'm coming from
just so I said now I have an identity to
go and to join and succeed only 17
percent of women in East Jerusalem are
participating in the workforce I was
very frustrated all my colleagues they
don't work so I started the idea of my
pink electronics to train women on
certain skills that will allow them to
work from home even men did not succeed
in this city to take their chance from
just I had now a mentor who is mentoring
my my business and helping me to grow
and this will help them in their own
businesses too today we can feel that
the community is more connected they are
looking at the Israeli market how they
can succeed in the Israeli market how
they can integrate in the Israeli market
and how they can explore their
capabilities to the Israeli market
[Music]
Israel is known as the startup nation
it's not because of the army or because
they're smarter or anything I think in
my mind because there is a like a huge
ecosystem of encouragement they have so
many accelerators in the west side we
don't have an accelerator we have an
incubator one just and and that's it
unless we show some success stories then
things will change but you cannot show
success unless you have an ecosystem and
you cannot have an ecosystem unless you
have success so that's that's the deal
the idea whether you can actually kind
of plan an ecosystem is something that
many countries in the world are
grappling with there's a fundamental
kind of contradiction because government
operates top-down and startup ecosystems
come from the ground up there they were
ganic I think we've gone through enough
iterations on the critical path of how
ecosystems are built where is the fine
line in balance between planning and
echo system from a government
perspective and then trying to quote
unquote
own it ben-gurion said that the ultimate
test of the Zionist movement will be in
the Negev and so the country is now
trying to face up to that challenge
we're taking a lot of best practices
from the last 30 years starting from
1985 and trying to leverage them in in
Belgium and in the Negev one of the
strengths that we have as a nation is
the fact that the military is very
central to everything that we do and so
if you take that organization and put it
in this other place that will push
everything from beyond the probably 10
kilometer radius that has it about 80%
of the startups in Israel right now
which doesn't make sense from a national
point of view the plan is to leverage
the fact that top-down there's things
that we can do like health and education
and housing if you put all that together
you'll get a new excellence innovation
center around bear Sheva which is
essential to Israeli like view
increasingly the Israeli government is
trying to trickle this startup nation
effect into other cities but it's it's
very difficult most Israelis work in
high-tech and in the startup world
prefer to be in Tel Aviv and its
environs
what's interesting is this need to build
a place from an idea that's very related
to startups and entrepreneurship for the
first you know 40 years of our history
we weren't startup nation our big pride
was we grow our oranges we made the
Desert Bloom and there was a lot of
innovation in that but it wasn't high
tech it wasn't what we think of a
startup nation the ethos of the country
was very much socialist and they were
trying to manage this whole thing from
the top down in a way it was totally
impossible in a modern economy people
say well you know the Russians were
communist that wasn't real communist
so the real communism in a way was the
kibbutz so the kibbutz is basically a
radical social experiment they were
primarily agricultural only later they
started getting involved in start-up
nation this kibbutz was one of the three
settlements in the south of Israel this
is a shared community we act like a
cooperative so we don't own anything all
the cars are for the kibbutz members and
when we need a car we just come and we
take a car basically that's how things
run here you have an apartment and free
education for your kids and health
everything you need basically we'll stop
here for a second we need to remind
ourselves all the time that were in the
middle of the desert we're very far from
the city I lived in New York I lived in
Tel Aviv for many years I've been in
advertising companies and I'd start up
and I understand the pressure and I
understand all the bullshit that you
need to deal with in the city it's all
around you so you deal with that and you
deal with that and you go to that and
you win the skills and you take out
money and at the end you don't take off
your product you don't do what you have
to do so coming here and setting up my
business here I realized that we have a
big advantage being apart from all the
what I call the bullshit the idea of the
hatchery one of the main point of the
hatchery is to get entrepreneurs
isolated a bit to get them away from the
city away from temptations that the city
holds get them in a isolated environment
where they can really really concentrate
on what's important a start-up maker if
you're still in college or just
graduated and got an idea that you think
the conquer the galaxy that's great you
can join the mod gonna a three-month
technological bootcamp in Israel get rid
of distractions and daily concerns get
expert guidance on all aspects you need
and essential skills even bakery if
needed all you need for your idea to
conquer the galaxy
cutting here it's not like a regular
accelerator it's not like a course if
you come to the hatchery you move here
and you live here when you stay here you
don't go to traffic you don't stand you
don't waste time so if you need a mentor
he comes here what I'm selling is peace
of mind if you know that you have
breakfast lunch dinner you have laundry
you have a house you don't need to pay
bills my mind is not distracted for a
startup it's worth more than money part
of the miracle of the Israeli tech scene
throughout the years is even more
impressive when you understand how small
of a group it is Israel ultimately is
about 8 million people these days out of
which almost million people is above the
age of 65 the population here under the
age of 22 23 is also pretty big around
two and a half million people 3 million
people so they don't participate in the
workforce they don't participate in the
creative classes you would call it and
so you end up with working-class if you
will of about four and a half or five
million people out of which the
participation rate is around 60% a very
small part of that is actively engaged
in hi-tech and science what do we need
to do for this to scale
[Music]
initially in the book one of our big
questions was is startup nation
sustainable is it here for good I think
that the big challenge going forward is
a growth challenge this is Jewish
country I'd say 80% Jewish 20 percent
Arab and they're basically two big
minorities that are less connected to
start-up nation Arab Israelis don't
serve in the military generally and the
ultra religious Jews they kind of opt
out they believe they should be studying
and not take time off going forward it's
critical to bring in these these
minorities and not have them left out
just because they're not serving in the
military
the Israeli high tech today lacks over
6000 engineers and it is consensus today
that the main a human capital resource
for to bridge this gap is the Arab
community and the ultra-orthodox Jews
since this country established we are
citizens of Israel and have an equal
rights here in Israel but our community
don't involve into the Israeli military
so we don't have the culture of the
technology industry in the Arab
community the infrastructure in the Arab
cities and villages is like 20-30 years
behind the Jewish cities Arab family
earns half as much as a Jewish family
earns 68% of Arab kids in Israel live
under poverty line and out of 120,000
engineers working in high-tech in Israel
only 4,000 are Arabs in 2007 I met
Madonna and Yossi cotton we are three
founders and we build the top an
organization the idea of Safin was we
should build share society between the
Jewish and the hub through technology in
terms of our objective we are seeking
about integrating 10,000 terrible
engineers by the year 2025 and having
for high-tech centers in Arab cities
today we are located in Nazareth there
we have an accelerator for startups and
today employ over 900 engineers more
than 100 of them are Jews that are
coming every day to work in Nazareth for
a nun Israeli this may sound very normal
but here this is a real revolution if we
can bring it together I think that's
that's the next high-tech boom
I grew up here neighbor karate
ultra-orthodox the education system
all-girls no SATs or any exam that
wouldn't allow you to go into higher
education we have a very unique way of
life there are a lot of guidelines a lot
of ways of things that we do keeping of
the Shabbat from Friday night to
Saturday night you don't use electricity
very often and in the last few decades
it will be the men will keep on going to
learn and then the women would still
take care of the income and actually
working I started writing for magazines
in Israel one publisher told me I don't
believe that if you believe in God it
can be an intelligent human being so
being an entrepreneur and already and a
woman and a mom is I guess it's
challenging so this is my home office
this is actually a prototype with his
roommate life which was really cool we
really try to help companies provide
mentoring and advice on demands from
employees from all levels and all
backgrounds inside the company so we
just create internal apps for them that
help them get the most relevant people
specifically relevant to your issue you
can go into it you can ask a question or
just write about a situation you'd like
advice with and get some really good
advice from them konna tech is an
amazing organization started by Moshe
Fremont
contech is integrating uranium inside
established high-tech companies like
Google and Microsoft we for example lean
on we sit inside Microsoft ventures so I
can actually go to someone who works in
sales in Microsoft or in development if
I have a problem and really get a lot of
advice and help from them it's so
successful they're going to take it and
actually apply itself to Arab startups
now and afterwards to startups in Israel
in general I do think like integration
is the key but I've been told for a year
now oh if only all hunger game would
have been like
you and I'm sure that's the case for
people of color and for Arabs and for
like maybe people of the gay community
but you know if you've known like my
whole family in my old community you
probably think yeah okay I do you might
ever like that in my dream and I'm sure
in comics dream even more I see like an
integrated society but sort of like an
immigration takes like a generation or
so back that
immigrants are always the best
entrepreneurs they can gain a lot from
becoming Tappan Aaron can lose little
because we don't have usually anything
go much in any case and this country is
crucible of immigrants for the last 120
years and the interesting thing is our
to current immigration sources are from
within us these are the ultra-orthodox
and they are of Israelis they are
immigrating you know from their way of
life into the high tech and introduced
lots of good and fresh power into this
pool at the end of the day were very
small country even if we bring in
minority groups we're still a small
country so I think the the critical
thing we need to do is connect more with
ecosystems around the world Israel it's
so small that it should it should be a
global player so be part of the big
decisions be part of where the flow of
brains and data and finances goes you
know year-on-year in double digits in
terms of trades and investment a big
player in the Israeli venture capital
domain today's Chinese private investors
and institutional's to an interesting
degree the Chinese and these Raley's or
the Jewish culture have a lot of things
in common in terms of the fact that
there at the same time ancient people
who are interested in making
contribution to the world
so this is a bizarrely Kingdom this is
where we have software engineers and
hardware engineers few engineers in QA
and this is where the magic happens
making a smart product is a complicated
and painful process we decided that we
are going to build a platform that will
make it easy for every company to make
their product smart fifteen years ago it
was difficult to develop a website today
it's much easier it will take someone
and will put them in front of weeks they
will get an amazing website within an
hour today it's difficult to develop any
product
soon it will be much much much easier
you will be able to make a smart ceiling
fan or a smart mattress or a smart baby
walker or a smart dog collar we want to
measure the heartbeat of the dog we want
to measure the location of the dog the
motion of the dog and the temperature of
the dog so simple so far found for me 36
different solution so I can use the left
hand filters just to say guys I don't
want it to cost more than 12 dollars to
order a prototype using the system we
are giving you the ability to bring the
product to a state that is ready for
production the quantity that we will
produce it all depends on you we are at
the moment 50 employees we have three
centers around the world the R&D center
is here in Tel Aviv we have the
assessment marketing office in San
Francisco and we have the supply chain
office in Shenzhen in the last few years
many Israeli startups are really
starting to shift their focus from the
u.s. to China and they're getting much
better at knowing and understanding the
Chinese investment culture and also what
Chinese consumers are looking for the US
and China is almost opposite ends of the
spectrum in terms of individualistic
versus collectivists
and Israel sort of in the middle and the
kibbutz was obviously the epitome of the
collectivist mentality so it's it's an
interesting kind of hybrid
it's as if China's discovered Israel and
at the same time you have this kind of
political fight with Israel the
disinvestment movement globally it
basically hasn't had much impact because
of investment from Chinese funds in
Israeli funds and it seems to be going
the direction of innovating here China
translated the book first and later on
the European countries with less sense
of urgency so you could kind of see
where the biggest hunger for innovation
was they see something successful and
they want to learn from it I think
actually preferable to the Western
tendency at seven was still negative
about success sometimes this is just
kind of at the beginning we should be
building actually startups together we
should be co-founding companies that are
designed to solve Chinese problems same
journey is obviously the center of
manufacturing so it's C Bo won't be
completely an Israeli company I believe
that Alan D will stay here forever but
the cells will obviously be in China and
in the US and the supply chain will be
obviously in China we are here to build
huge company we are here to build the
largest IOT development platform in the
world
there was the frustration for a while
that all this amazing startup nation
brand wasn't actually creating a lot of
value for the average Israeli because
many of these startups were being sold
at a very early stage but I think that's
that's changing and just since 2013 you
already have 15 Israeli companies that
reached the 1 billion dollar valuation
statistic wise you see how few unicorns
they are so the risk to try to aspire to
be unicorn is very very high you
increase your risk like can I'm being a
higher mountain is more difficult than
to climb a hill
the reward also is is higher but the
risk is much higher the things which are
very good in startups you know that
everybody has an opinion everybody is
committed everybody make decision you
know everybody run on its own way this
is good when you have small groups when
you have big groups you have to give
marching orders this is not the kind of
culture that you can have the same
things that make a screen startups tend
to make it's bad if they're companies
the innovation process and one of
experimenting of trying and failing
taking risks and being able to move
quickly the scaling process is one of
sales marketing management and the
people are good at one aren't
necessarily good at the other I think
where the world is going billion dollar
companies are not what they used to be
so should there be scale at the billion
yes there should be that's a good
indicator that we have matured some of
our ecosystem has matured but is that a
single indicator of whether Israel made
a transition into scale-up nation and is
it scale-up nation by definition the
desirable effect I don't think so
ultimately this country doesn't have the
privilege of making you know radical
mistakes as we grow is this thing that
at any given moment there is a silver
bullet here if you don't do things right
the whole thing can collapse you know
America can make mistakes UK can make
mistakes big countries with legacy with
a lot of people with natural resources
they can make mistakes for Israel for
Israelis and mistakes at a greater scale
can have very very bad consequences and
there might not be a way back on quite a
number of dimensions here
you know being in Israel is kind of a
genetic disorder you know you always
want to come back you know this is the
only country in the world where there is
war usually when there is war you see
people running away from the country you
see caravans of of refugees going Greece
with other things in Israel and there is
war you go to JFK then you see in front
of the counter or fail all people are
sleeping on the floor waiting for their
they fly to fly back home
[Music]
I'm here every day to remind people that
they have the power to change the
reality they're telling us that Israel
is an empire of Technology because we
are in constant state of war war means
profits because when you're in a state
of war
you can always develop new weapons
because you have where the test is I
think you can understand from the from
this that my views about the occupation
are that I'm not lacking for it it's
true that in the last video we see an
increasing number of Israelis opening
companies overseas
I think being sick of the political
situation is the major reason you know
people usually don't say it you know
because doesn't sound good I refuse to
accept that this is our reality and
forever will be that way talk to people
everyone's certain the whole place is
going to die or to collapse tomorrow a
lot of Israelis who live abroad are
relieved for a few years they just near
the main feeling they have is I don't
have to worry about making this place
work this place works Silicon Valley it
will work with me or without me and for
a few years that's great
years later they're like shit I'm such a
small cog right you know I don't make a
difference I need to go back in Israel I
make a difference to an extent we have
this privilege that things don't work
very well here because then it's always
easy to challenge the status quo it's
not like it's a well-functioning country
that you sit around say hey you know
what we're done
I'm a Palestinian I grew up here I was
born and raised here I know I know what
occupation and I know that occupation is
nothing less than evil and in 2016 to be
occupied by a Western democratic nation
is a black mark not for us but rather
for the nation that occupies us
this project is part of the State
Building I'm a strong believer that the
occupation will end and we will have our
independent free Palestine and the
question in our mind always is what
shape of a nation we will have this is
part of building the nation only a small
part but it's an important part the
pillars of an important nation is strong
governance good human and civil rights
and excellent economy and this project
is about an excellent economy and about
upgrading the standards of living
[Music]
I am a strong believer that a
Palestinian state is in the making we
don't have to wait for the end of the
occupation to start fixing our lives and
improving the economy we could start
earlier the occupation is gonna end we
deserve to live comfortably so I'm not
looking for any type of people they
could be any Palestinian it's obviously
for Palestinians located a half-hour
from Jerusalem and just 15 minutes from
Ramallah is the brand-new Palestinian
city of Roja being it's the first
planned city in Palestine eventually it
will become home to more than 40,000
residents in the city centre startups
and enterprises are setting up
operations they are ready to rise to
meet the challenges of a new and
sustainable knowledge economy the
technology sector will be the key pillar
of the city's future Rawabi will be a
premier ICT hub both local and
international high-tech firms will find
Rawabi a very attractive prospect for
them to base large-scale ICT businesses
we are catering to young educated high
tech community to accommodate these
people you have to have a smart
technologically advanced city the
technological place is not just by
technology it's also by the ecosystem
you create so these are restaurants on
the plaza so you could just imagine
having chairs out here and people just
sit down having coffee eating our target
is to get high-tech companies it has not
been easy we are pushing for
international companies to outsource to
Palestine to establish R&D facilities in
Palestine to establish testing in
Palestine a lot of them are afraid they
think that bullets are flying all over
the place but we just had some
breakthroughs there's one great
advantage the proximity of Israel being
one of the most advanced nations
technologically all the big companies
are in Israel Google apples
s AP Intel Cisco just half an hour to an
hour away and so if we could piggyback
on that and create jobs then we have a
great vibrant city this could be the
Marshall Plan that picks up the economy
in the next 10 to 15 years we just had
the elections in the neighborhoods we
have three neighborhoods now so this is
also democracy in the making from the
grassroots of
in Palestine and many countries like
Palestine when you give people the
opportunity they Excel what I did is
open up the door to the hundreds maybe
thousands of innovative Palestinians
each one of them is experienced enough
to build Rawabi - it's those people who
came up with what kind of a stone
whether to do the arches or not to do
the arches where you put the I IT
companies where you put the homes
it's exciting now to the residents of
the city which I call them the pioneers
of the city literally they are the
pioneers thanks to the internet they see
the West they see the East they see
everybody advancing and they're not
advancing they're demanding better and I
believe this is a good response to their
demand how are we one of the amazing
projects in Palestine amazing talented
intrapreneur a thermochemistry
I love the whole idea just being there
you will feel that you can see the
future of Palestine starting from Rami I
think it's great you know I think you
know anything which is with the
Palestinians about doing for economic
development I think it's very important
you know because terror and hatred are
growing on misery and feeling of
unfairness etc so the more you close the
gap the better it is but nothing will
replace I think a political pact between
the two countries you know to end this
conflict and to let the Palestinians
create their own state and anybody you
think that the economic development can
replace the aspiration of the
Palestinian people to have their to
control their own destiny is elucidating
one of the biggest problem we have here
is the Israeli settlements they are
ideological settlers that come here
believing that this land is theirs God
gave it to them we should not exist here
and when we started the project early on
they
to destroy what we're doing over time as
they saw Rawabi is in Israeli news they
tried to be accommodating and said hey
let's do things together
we told them no we will deal with Israel
is in Israel proper we will not deal
with radical ideological settlers at all
in my personal opinion they are the
biggest obstacle to peace the more
radical the more organized you are but
the average ordinary Israeli is not
radical the average ordinary Israeli
also when I live and would probably
prefer to see a prosperous Palestinian
state next to them the notion that we
have to make it work because no one else
would make it work was not adopted in
the Middle East at large in the last 67
years and it is getting there now people
demand accountability people like Sian
and how do you say I want to make it
work why not
I'm not gonna wait for the political
leadership I'm not gonna wait for this
or that I'm just not gonna wait I'm
gonna make it work to me I think that's
fantastic politicians take them away and
everything will be solved even keep keep
the politics for the people in the
street and everything will be solved all
the conflicts about the political who
have the case the Palestinians or the
Israelis with all the globalization in
this world now it's time just to join
the forces together to start walking
together and to make you life your
family life your kids life and other
lives and how you are going to channel
I think that the big thing we need to do
that actually isn't being addressed
enough now is to open our doors I want
to walk into Israeli startups and not
just see Israelis in tech in startups
when a demon ABB's collaborates all the
time because we're facing a lot of the
same challenges so I hopefully managed
to both you know do amazing things in
high-tech and still maintain our
personality and our values entrepreneurs
are very pragmatic creatures between
Israelis and Palestinians I don't think
it's any different but I do believe that
the political reality ultimately will
limit those kinds of interactions and
can go only so far you know you'd like
to see much more mutual understanding
growing between the two sides you need
real tangible political movements toward
a solution then you also need
Palestinians and Israelis to to not only
meet each other at checkpoints I think
if we take the political sensitivity
aside they are not even a cousin's as I
said there are two brothers you can see
how they are connected they have same
common behaviors on happiness on sadness
winning on losing on everything even the
language that common wars between the
languages there are that it's connected
you know I think a lot of people doubt
what we're doing but diamonds are built
under pressure so one of these companies
is going to make a big and will have an
exit and that will change our ecosystem
for the better the technology
advancements and the access that people
have
I think that's encouraging everyone to
take advantage of it and do something
and there's no reason why us living in
the West Bank even with the occupation
we can't take advantage of it
[Music]
president Paris who's to say that wisdom
doesn't have a passport it's a global
trait but in this day and age of science
of being able to you know digitally
transfer insights and intelligence and
value it transcends a lot of political
realities but we are in an interim
period we're transitioning from a world
of borders that was based on tens of
thousands of years of agriculture there
is no global government yet hopefully
the positive attitude of the tech
industry will prevail but they are
disgruntled people who are getting the
short end of that stick they also
enjoyed the same trends I want to create
a dirty bomb five years from now that
would cost me $200 ten years ago would
cost with 200 million dollars so the
same mathematics apply the era for
evolution applies on both ends and if we
don't know how to manage that and if we
don't create mechanisms to guide
humanity into leveraging the positive
elements of that we're headed for a
bumpy ride
[Music]
[Applause]
you
[Music]